TPS1

1. Once fib.s is assembled, open the Execute tab (it should be opened by default after assembled). Two segments of memory are displayed here: Text Segment and Data Segment. What are the starting addresses of Text Segment and Data Segment? Give your answers in Hex format.

-Text segment is 0x00400000 and the data segment is 0x10010000. The text segment starting address represents how the first line of code in our file stores instructions while the data segment starting address represents the memory stored on our RAM

2. The Text Segment shows you how each actual machine code is stored in the memory (again it is simulated) and its corresponding MIPS code. Two types of MIPS code are shown here: Basic and Source. We call the Basic one True Assembly Language, and the Source one MIPS Assembly Language. From the display, what can you tell about the difference between the two in terms of their relationship with the machine code? We will cover this topic in future lectures.

-The basic code shows where the instructions are stored in memory

Basic (True Assembly Language): There is a one-to-one relationship between the Basic code and the machine code. Every single instruction in the Basic column corresponds to exactly one 32-bit (4-byte) machine code entry in the "Code" column.
Source (MIPS Assembly Language): There is a one-to-many relationship between the Source code and the machine code. A single line of Source code (like la $t3, n) is often a pseudoinstruction that the assembler must expand into multiple "Basic" machine instructions (like lui and ori) to be executed by the hardware.



3. Now, let us take a look at the Data Segment. How much difference in bytes are there between 
2 address locations (again, the addresses are in Hex)?

-There is a difference of 0x20 which is 32 in decimal. there are 8 colunms in a row and 4 bytes in a colunm which = 32bytes/0x20


4. For each address location, how many columns are there?

-There are 8 columns per address row. Each of these columns represents one word (4 bytes or 32 bits) of data.


5. What can you tell about the relationship between the address difference and the number of columns at each address location?

-each data column represents one word and since there are 8 in a row, that equates to 32bytes


6. From the source code, how do you create a new variable/label named m and set it to 20?

-You would add m: .word 20 in the .data section to create the variable


7. Save and assemble your file. At what address is the value of m stored?

-0x10010004


8. Besides numbers, we can also initialize strings for the program to use. Search from the Internet on how to declare a string named str1 and set it to “I love CSE31!”

-str1: .asciiz "I love CSE31!"


9. Insert the declaration of str1 in your code and assemble it. From the Data Segment, we can see that the string is occupying 3 address locations. At what addresses is str1 stored?

-str1 is located at 0x10010008 also occupying 0x1001000c and 0x10010010


10. str1 is stored as numerical values in the memory. Check the ASCII box and observe how it is stored. Does the display of characters agree with what you have learned from Lab 04 about how an array of characters is stored?

-Yes, when I switch to the ascii view. I can see the same characters displayed across the addresses listed which were 0x10010008 to 0x10010014

11. In order to print str1, we will need to use syscall function. Search the Internet to find out how to print str1.

-You write ascizz to store the string in the data segment and add a null terminator, this is done in the .data section, and then in the .text section you are writing the load immediate (li) code and assigning the value 4 (string) to $v0, than (la) which loads arguments (address). A system call basically allows the program to access a file or to write something on the screen. You than write syscall which which completes/prints


12. Now let us go back to the program. Search from the Internet to find out what “la $t3, n” does.
What will be the value stored in $t3 after running this instruction? From this we can see that we cannot

-Instead of loading the number 13 into the register, it loads the 32-bit memory address where n is stored (0x10010000)


TPS2

1. From lectures, we have learned that we can perform different inequality comparisons (<, >, <=, >=) by using only slt, beq, and bne instructions. Why not having one instruction for each inequality in MIPS?

-The fewer instructions, the less stress on the physical chip. MIPS ensures that everything is simple enough to where you aren't compromising speed.

2. Declare a new variable/label (n) and set it to 25.
3. Insert instructions to declare the following strings:
a. str1: "Less than\n"
b. str2: "Less than or equal to\n"
c. str3: "Greater than\n"
d. str4: "Greater than or equal to\n"

4. Insert instructions to read in an integer from users. Search from the Internet on how to use syscall to do it.

-

5. Insert code so the program will compare if the user input is less than n. If it is, output “Less than”.

-


6. Insert code so the program will compare if the user input is greater than or equal to n. If it is, output “Greater than or equal to”.

-

7. Now comment out your code from steps 5 and 6. Insert code so the program will compare if the user input is greater than n. If it is, output “Greater than”.

-

8. Insert code so the program will compare if the user input is less than or equal to n. If it is, output “Less than or equal to”.

-
